---
layout: page
title: GSOC021 Idea
permalink: /develop/GSOC2021/generate_a_tutorial
exclude: true
---
## Generating tool chain for tutorials for the MSS client

-   **Project description**:

The current documentation covers the basic installation of the MSS tool, but not the practical usage, which has so far been taught in person. Here, a comprehensive tutorial with an exemplary flight planning shall be generated by automating the use of the client by scripts to generate a video with subtitles. In this way, the tutorial may be updated in case of interface or GUI design changes.

An idea is to implement a new tool chain for creating video tutorials based on descriptions and python programs. A program should start the UI and the description should be used as subtitle and probably spoken by a local text2speach. The programs should be collected similiar as on a testing framework and used to produce a video. Each program can be taken as a sequence of some actions. Also a new help button in the MSS UI should be added to select these programs and to show the sequences as tutorial. It must be possible to stop/pause/play rewind and forward these sequences after execution as a help feature.

Using this tool chain some tutorials about MSS should be created.
-   **Skills**: Python, QT, UI programming, pytest

-   **Difficulty level**: Medium

-   **Related Readings/Links**:
    -   http://sikulix.com/
    -   https://pyguibot.wordpress.com/
 
-   **Potential mentors**:
    rb.proj@gmail.com, j.ungermann@fz-juelich.de, m.baer@fz-juelich.de